Bismillah al-Rahman al-Rahim
Wa na'udhu billahi min shururi anfusina
wa min sayyi'ati
My dear brothers and sisters, salaam
alaykum wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuh.
So, we left off with
talking about the articles of faith. And
we finished talking about what belief in
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala constitutes,
and we talked about how the most
important right of Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala is that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
should be worshipped alone. And we
briefly talked about some of the dangers
of shirk, some of the dangers of shirk.
Now, we move on to the next section of
the hadith where the Messenger of Allah
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam continues on
by saying, "His angels as well."
So, now what's interesting over here is
that you'll see for the next segment of
this hadith, when the Messenger of Allah
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam is talking
about the articles of faith, he always
attributes everything back to Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala. So, it started off
with an tu'minu billah wa mala'ikatihi
wa kutubihi wa rusulihi, that you
believe in His angels, in His books, in
His messengers. Except for when you come
to the very last point, which is the
belief in qadar, which is the belief in
qadar. And then we'll briefly talk about
why that change takes place in qadar.
So, firstly, let us start off by talking
about belief in His angels. So, Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala mentions His angels
because these are a very special
creation of Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala.
They are a very special creation of
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala. And in fact,
this is one of the creations that is
unique to Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala. So,
you will notice that there are certain
things that as human beings, Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala allowed us to recreate
and to reproduce. So, chairs are easily
reproduced, uh tables are easily
reproduced. You know, even human beings,
alhamdulillah, Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
has given us the ability to reproduce
through His tawfiq. Now, you creation
that is unique to Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala alone is His angels. Is His
angels. Now, when it comes to belief in
the angels, you'll notice that there's
two main elements in it. Element number
one is what are we required to believe?
And element number two is what are the
samarat or what are the fruits of this
belief? What are the fruits of this
belief? Now, in terms of what are we
required to believe in terms of angels,
Sheikh ibn Uthaymeen, rahimahullah, in
explaining the usool of iman or
explaining the articles of faith, he
says there are four things that are
compulsory upon every Muslim to believe
in when it comes to the angels that
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala created. So, let
us go through the list that Sheikh ibn
Uthaymeen mentions. He mentions number
one that it is compulsory to believe in
their existence. Number one, it is
compulsory to believe in their
existence.
Number two,
it is compulsory to have general and
specific belief in them. It is
compulsory to have general and specific
belief in them. By this, what Sheikh ibn
Uthaymeen, rahimahullah, means is that
the angels have general tasks and then
they have specific tasks. So, general
tasks of the angels is to constantly
praise Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala, to
constantly obey Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala,
to constantly magnify Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala. So, this is a general belief in
the angels. And then you have a specific
belief in the angels. We know that
Jibreel was the angel of revelation. We
know that Mikael is the angel that sends
down the rain and brings forth
vegetation. We know that Israfil is the
angel that will be blowing the trumpet.
We know that Munkar and Nakir are the
angels that will be doing the
questioning. So, these are all angels
that have specific tasks. So, a Muslim
is required to believe in the general
objective of angels as well as their
specific tasks.
Number three, we're required to believe
in the attributes that Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala has given them. We're required to
believe in the attributes that Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala has given them. So,
who can tell me some of the attributes
that the angels have been given in terms
of their physical creation? What do we
know about the angels?
They have wings. Masha Allah.
Excellent. How many wings do they have?
Excellent. So, Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala,
he starts off Surah Fatir by telling us
that he is the one that created angels
that have wings, two, three, or four,
and he increases upon that that which he
pleases. The messenger of Allah
Sallallahu Alayhi Wasallam, when he saw
Jibreel Alayhi Salaam, it is stated that
he said that I saw Jibreel and he had
600 or more wings to him. He had 600 or
more wings to him. So, these are some of
the attributes of the angels. What is
another attribute of the angels that we
know of?
That they're created from light. So,
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala, he created the
angels from light. Fantastic. A third
attribute of the angels, what do we
know?
They don't sleep. Excellent. The angels
do not sleep. They are not like human
beings. Go ahead.
They don't eat. We're going to start
going to specifics. Next one is like
they don't go to the bathroom, either.
Okay, those are good. Those are good.
But we're looking for like, you know,
specific things that are mentioned. Go
ahead, in the back.
What do you mean by that? Explain.
That's a very good answer, but explain
what you mean by it.
Fantastic. That's what we're looking
for. So, the angels do have choices, but
they're unable to disobey Allah Subhana
Wa Ta'ala. As Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
describes them in Surat Tahrim,
wayaf'aluna ma yu'marun, that these
angels, they do whatever Allah Subhana
Wa Ta'ala commands them with. So, these
are some of the attributes that Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala has given the angels.
Other attributes that Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala has given the angels is that the
angels are much, much larger than human
beings. So, the messenger of Allah
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam, when he
describes Jibreel, he describes his
wingspan alone that it covers the
horizon from the east and the west, that
that is how large Jibreel was. In terms
of their lifespan, their lifespan is
also much, much longer than human
beings. In fact, there's nothing to
indicate that angels actually die, that
they will only, you know, sleep when the
trumpet blows, but besides that, they
are not known to die as well. So, those
are some of the attributes that we know
about the angels. So, that is point
number three, that we believe in the
attributes that are given to them.
And then the fourth and last point that
is compulsory to believe in in terms of
the angels is that we have that we
believe in the tasks that the angels do.
So, point number two was to believe that
they have been given specific
responsibilities as mentioned in the
Quran and Sunnah, and then point number
four is to believe that they actually do
these tasks, that the angels actually do
these tasks. So, these are the four
points that Sheikh Muhammad ibn
Uthaymeen Rahimahullah mentions that are
compulsory upon every Muslim to believe
in when it comes to the angels, when it
comes to the angels. Now, important
thing to understand over here is that
the Quran and Sunnah within of
themselves did not enumerate these
points, but rather when one makes, you
know, an
of the Quran and Sunnah, one can find
that these are the things that are
compulsory to believe in. These are the
things that are compulsory to believe
in. Now, let us look at some of the
benefits of belief in the angels. Some
of the benefits of belief in the angels.
Benefit number one
is that it prevents an individual from
perpetually doing bad deeds. So, Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala, he tells us about the
angels that writes that write down the
deeds. He says, "Ma yalfeethu min qawlin
illa ladayhi raqibun 'atid." That not a
word is uttered, not a sound is uttered,
except that the angels are writing down
every single thing that you say. So,
when you recognize that the angels are
writing down every single thing that you
say, it makes a person conscious of what
he is saying and what he is doing. So,
an individual that he knows he will one
day stand in front of Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala and his book of life will be
presented to him, he will be very
cautious in terms of what is written and
documented for him.
Number two, a second benefit of angels
is that Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala created
the angels to help us. And a lot of the
times you can see what a blessing that
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala has created
these angels to be. I want to give you
an example. In 2010,
I was in Edmonton and the weather that
day was minus 44 degrees. And it was
That's like without the wind chill
factor. With the wind chill factor, I
think it went in down into like the 50s
or 60s. And what had happened was that
some of the houses
their pipes froze. Their pipes froze.
So, they were no longer able to get, you
know, fresh water into the house. So,
what they had to do was they had to go
into like city hall with these
containers of water, you know, like the
big 20-liter water containers. They had
to take those water containers to city
hall where a truck would fill them up
and then they would take it back home to
their houses or to wherever they lived.
And they use this for, you know, cooking
and cleaning. They use this for the
bathroom. They use this for, you know,
all of its purposes that water has.
Now, you may think, you know, where is
this story going? But, I want you to
look at how easily Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala transports water, millions of
liters. And I'll share the experience
behind that. That when we went to city
hall to pick up this water, you would
see old people, Subhanallah, you know,
in their 60s, 70s, 80s, with these
20-liter containers struggling to carry,
you know, these 20 liters of water. That
some of them would have to put in their
car, they weren't able to do so. Some of
them had to climb upstairs, they aren't
able to do so. And this is just with 20
liters of water. And Subhanallah, you
know, you you felt bad for the senior
citizens at that time, you know, wishing
that someone was there to help them.
But, it also makes one reflect on the
creation of Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala, how
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala transports
literally millions of liters of water.
That, you know, you have it out in the
ocean, it condenses, goes up into the
clouds, the clouds travel, you know,
miles away, and then the
clouds send down the rain through the,
you know, help of the angels. So, it
here it shows you that one of the
benefit of the angels is that the angels
are actually there to benefit mankind
and to benefit the creation of Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala. So, second benefit of
the belief in angels is that it makes a
person grateful that Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala has created a creation to look
after the human beings. Likewise, we see
in the battle of Badr, we look in the
battle of Uhud, that when the Muslims
needed help in those battles, Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala, he sent the angels to
help the Muslims in those battles. So,
it helps an individual be grateful to
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala. A third
blessing that one recognizes from the
creation of angels
is that Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala, he
creates a creation that is unable to
disobey him. And I want you to imagine
if Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala had placed
that burden on human beings. Imagine if
Allah had placed upon us that we were
unable to disobey him. How difficult
life would be. You know, imagine if
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala, he said that
you would cease to desist the second
this cease to exist the second you
disobey Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala. You
know, some of us would be alive for a
couple of seconds and then khalas, life
is over. But Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala, he
shows us that he gave that heavy burden
to the angels, but he didn't give it to
human beings. He didn't give it to human
beings. He gave them a similar burden
which is just as heavy that we will be
held accountable for the deeds that we
commit and we are responsible for, you
know, giving da'wah to people and all
these other responsibilities, but he
didn't give us the responsibility
of purely obeying Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala at all times, right? So, this is
something that he gave the angels. So,
it shows us that Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
showed us mercy and showed us, you know,
uh his generous nature by allowing us to
commit sin and allowing us to repent at
the same time that he did not hold us to
account like he did to the angels that
he did not allow them to disobey Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala. So, those are some of
the benefits of belief in the angels.
Now, who can repeat for me what are the
pillars of belief in the angels? What
are we required to believe when it comes
to the angels?
Go ahead.
So, number one, we believe in their
existence.
Roles, general and specific roles,
excellent.
Fantastic, their specific deeds.
That they actually do them, yes, and the
last one?
Their attributes, so we believe in the
attributes that Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
has given them. So, we believe in their
existence, we believe in their general
and specific roles, we believe in their
attributes and we actually believe that
they fulfill the tasks that they have
been described with in the Quran and the
Sunnah. And then we mention some of the
benefits of believing in them. Then we
come to the books that Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala revealed. Then the messenger
of Allah
continues on to say that after belief in
the angels
his books as well. So he doesn't mention
to believe in his books, but as a
continuation from the previous sentence
structure, we understand that it means
to believe in his books as well. And now
believe in his books as well also have
four articles of faith. Believe in his
books also have four articles of faith.
Number one, that these books truly were
revealed by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
That the books truly were revealed by
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala. Number two,
one must specifically believe in all of
the books and scriptures that are
mentioned in the Quran and Sunnah. One
must specifically believe in all the
books that are mentioned in the Quran
and the Sunnah.
Number three, one must believe in each
and every single aspect of revelation
that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has sent
down. So anything that can be proven to
be true from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
in the previous scriptures and in the
current scripture, it is compulsory to
believe in. It is compulsory to believe
in. And then Sheikh Uthaymeen he goes on
to a tangent on the fourth one, which is
clearly very disputable in terms of what
he is saying. He says one must also
believe in the non-abrogated revelations
of the Quran. One must also believe in
the non-abrogated revelations in the
Quran. And we'll get into what that
means. So number one, let us talk about
the books that were revealed by Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala. The books that were
revealed by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala he sent down
previous books. From those books are
those that we know and from those books
are those that we don't know. From the
books that we know that Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala sent down, he sent down the
Torah to Musa. He sent down to the Injil
to Isa. He sent down the Zabur to Dawud.
He sent the Quran to Muhammad sal Allah
alayhi wasallam. And then he sent the
Suhuf which were to Ibrahim and to Musa.
These are the scriptures that we are
which we know of by name that are
mentioned in the Quran and the Sunnah.
Number two is that the differences
between the previous scriptures and the
current scripture is that Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala he took the
responsibility himself to preserve the
Quran. Whereas the previous scriptures,
it is the human beings that were
responsible for their preservation. And
like all human, you know, I guess
activities, they are deficient in one
way or another. So the human beings fell
short in preserving and documenting.
And that is why over time those books
changed as well.
Number three, in terms of believing in
all of the scriptures, you'll notice
that this is a modern-day tendency as
well as something that's mentioned of
the previous nations that we tend to
believe in what suits us. So if we see a
part of the Quran that, you know, befits
our agenda and, you know,
progresses our agenda, we'll believe in
it. But if we find something in the
Quran that goes against what we believe
in or goes against our agendas, then
we'll notice that a lot of the people
they tend to reject it. Whereas Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala he heavily
criticized the previous nations for this
attribute. He heavily criticized the
previous nations for this attribute that
they would change that they would not
believe holistically in the revelation
that was given to them. So as a Muslim
you want to make sure that just like you
believe in one part of the Quran, you
believe in all aspects of the Quran as
well.
And then the fourth and last point that
Sheikh Uthaymeen rahimahullah mentions
is that we must believe in the
non-abrogated revelations of the Quran.
And what he means by this is that when
you look into the Quran, you will notice
that Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala, he
mentions in Surat Al-Baqarah that we do
not abrogate a verse in the Quran except
that we bring something which is better
than it or equivalent to it, right? So,
here Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala is talking
about abrogation. And when you look at
abrogation, let us understand what it
means. Abrogation means one of two
things and it has three forms.
Abrogation can be that Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala takes a verse out of the Quran,
but the ruling still remains.
Or Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala leaves a
verse in the Quran, but the ruling no
longer remains. Our third form of
abrogation is that the verse is taken
out as well as the ruling is taken out
as well as the ruling is taken out. And
in terms of these forms of abrogation,
the scholars actually differ. Did all
three of forms of abrogation actually
take place? And if you do a complete
analysis, Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala knows
best, but it seems yes that there were
are verses that were taken out from the
Quran and Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
replaced them with other verses. And
there's certain rulings that were
applicable, but then became no longer
applicable. So, these are all different
types of abrogation and a Muslim is
required to believe in the non-abrogated
verses. So, as a Muslim, you are
required to believe in those verses that
were not abrogated. If you do not
believe in the verses that were
abrogated, then this is a matter of
difference of opinion, but according to
Sheikh Ibn Uthaymemeen, it is not one of
the integral components of believing in
revelation. It is not one of the
integral components of believing in
revelation. So, now
looking at previous scriptures, Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala he talks about how the
people of the past distorted the message
of their scriptures. They distorted the
message of their scriptures. So, the
first way that they distorted the
message of their scriptures is that they
distorted the meanings or interpretation
of it while they left the wording the
same. So, you'll find that in the past
the people of the past from you know
Bani Israel and from the the Nasara that
the wording of their text was there but
they misinterpreted the meanings of it
all together. So, this is the first type
of distortion that took place.
Number two is that they actually changed
the text itself. So, now not playing
with the meaning itself but now they're
actually playing with the wording. So,
sometimes they will have no problem
introducing a new wording. They will not
have no problem taking out a wording and
they will have no problem you know
completely changing up the wording all
together if it suits their purposes.
And then number three, the third type of
distortion that Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
mentions of them is that they conceal
it. So, meaning that the wording is
there, the meaning is there but when it
came time to rule by those things they
would hide it either from their own
people, either from their own clergy or
just by hiding it from not acting upon
it. So, these are the distortions that
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala mentions that
the people of the past did and Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala gives these warnings
so that the Muslims will take heed of
it.
That the Muslims will take heed of it.
Now, what are some of the benefits of
believing in the previous scriptures?
What are some of the benefits of
Number one, it is to realize that Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala at no point in time
has left mankind without guidance. So,
as long as mankind has existed Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala has always been
sending them some sort of guidance
either in the form of a messenger that
spoke to them or giving them a physical
book with which they could read and
understand and implement and construct
their lives by. And this is one of the
most important aspects of the Quran is
that Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala has given
us this divine manual through which we
live our day-to-day lives. You know, we
do not live our day-to-day lives just
through our own whims and desires, but
rather Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala has given
us this Quran to make it as a way of
life. And that is the primary benefit of
the belief in the scriptures that Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala has not left you
without guidance, but rather Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala has told you how you
should live your lives. Number two is
that belief in the scriptures is one of
the miracles of Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala.
And the levels of miracle are different
based upon in how much detail you
actually study them. So, the lowest
level of miracles is how Allah Subhana
Wa Ta'ala kept the stories consistent
proving the divine nature of Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala. Meaning that Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala revealed the story of
Yusuf Alayhis Salaam in the Torah, and
he revealed the story in the Quran as
well. And you will see that the since
the source is exactly the same, then the
story then the story or the details of
the story are the same as well. And this
is miraculous. Why? Because it proves
that this story is from Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala. Because had it been from a human
being, had it been from any of his
creation, again it would have been
you know, distorted in one way or
another, would have changed, the details
would have been grasped, you know,
drastically different. Another miracle
when it comes to the scriptures that
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala has given is the
effects that they have on the people.
So, you'll notice that when a Jewish
person is reading the Torah, Christian
person is reading the Injil, the Muslim
person is reading the Quran, it always
tends to have a spiritual effect on the
individual. That Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
in his true words allows a spiritual
benefit to take place. A third benefit
of belief in the scriptures is that
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala shows his
miraculous nature in the preservation of
the Quran and how easily he allowed the
Quran to be preserved. How easily he
allowed the Quran to be preserved. So,
there's no other book throughout our
history as a human civilization that has
been documented and preserved in
memories like the Quran has. Again,
proving the miraculous nature of these
books. Now, one nice point to mention
about the belief in the scriptures is
that you'll notice throughout time When
did people start going astray from their
faith and their religions? They started
going astray as soon as they abandoned
the books that Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
had given them or started to distort
them. And you'll notice that in our
times the exact same thing happens that
as soon as Muslims start abandoning the
Quran, reading it and implementing and
trying to understand it, that is not
only when their Iman decreases, but
Muslims lose their identity. They lose
their focus. They lose their concept of
community and everything breaks down for
the Muslim community. So, part of the
focus of the Muslim community should be
reuniting with the Quran and trying to
find practical ways through which
Muslims will read the Quran and
understand the Quran and implement the
Quran. And that's actually one of the
reasons why we decided that, you know
what, this year since Ramadan is getting
closer and closer, we want to dedicate
the One Ummah conference to the Quran
and that is why it is called the Divine
Manual. Through this very reason that we
hope that as Muslims reconnect with the
Quran, it will fix
all facets of their lives and the
problems that the Muslim community faces
as well.
The messenger of Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
goes on to say, "And belief in his
messengers." Wa rusulihi. Now, there's
some interesting points in the wording
that the messenger of Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala chooses over here. So, you'll
notice that when Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
he talks about prophets and messengers,
he can use the term nabi and he can use
the term rasul. And both of them
indicate a person, a particularly a male
that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has
chosen to send forward to a people. That
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has chosen to
send forward to a people. Now the
question arises, why did the messenger
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala choose the
term rasul over here in terms instead of
the term nabi? And the scholars
mentioned that the reason why the
messenger of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
used the term rasul over here is because
generally speaking when they talk about
the difference of opinion amongst the
nabi and rasul, they always mention that
rasul is something more specific than
the nabi. What are the what are the
things that make it more specific? That
is what they differ over. But they
always mention it is something more
specific. Then there's also opinion that
nabi and rasul are exactly the same as
well. So whatever the case may be, the
rasul is always encompass
by the nabi. The rasul is always
encompass by the nabi. So if you believe
in a rasul, then by default you must
believe in the nabi as well. Because
every rasul is a nabi by definition. So
that is why the messenger of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala chose the term
rasul. Now in terms of what is a rasul
and how does a person become a rasul and
things like that, let us briefly get
into that. Number one is that Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala decides to choose
who are the prophets and messengers. And
this is not, you know, a human choice
that is made. As I'm sure most of you
must have seen this by now, but the
Peace TV conference where you see that
Indian man come up, you know, and asking
a question to
Sheikh Yusuf Idris. And he starts off
his question, he's like, you know, I
can't remember how he starts off, but
he's like, don't laugh at me. I have
some truth to reveal to you. I'm a
messenger from Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala. And you can see that the guy
standing behind him is in like, "What is
going on? Who is this guy?"
He claimed to be the Mahdi. But Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala, he clearly tells us
in the Quran in Surah Hajj that it is
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala that chooses
the messengers from the angels and from
men. So it is Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
that chooses the messengers. And rather
there's nothing that a human being can
do that will, you know, make him a
prophet or messenger from Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Number two is that what is the actual
difference between a nabi and a rasul?
What is the actual difference between a
nabi and a rasul? So let us look at the
difference of opinions. Opinion number
one will take the basic level that there
is no difference between a nabi and a
rasul. This opinion states that when
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala used the term
a a nabi and the term rasul, they are
exactly one and the same thing.
Opinion number two. This states that
nabi and a rasul are different in the
sense that the rasul
were given a new message, whereas the
nabi was given a continuation of the
previous message. So a rasul was given a
new message, and a nabi was given a
continuation of the previous message.
Number three.
This is the opinion that states that the
rasul is the one that is sent to a
people and his people reject him.
Whereas a nabi is the one who is sent to
a people and his people accept him. So
that is opinion number three. And we
will stay with these three general
opinions
in terms of the difference between a
nabi and a rasul. And if you want to use
a fourth opinion, then the rasul can
also be this one that was sent to a new
people with a new scripture, and he was
rejected by his people. Whereas the nabi
was not given a new scripture, nor was
he rejected by his people. So you can
combine opinions two and three and make
it a fourth opinion as well. In terms of
you know, which one are we required to
believe in? This is one of those issues
you're not required to have a specific
belief in. As long as you believe in the
prophets and messengers as a whole, then
this is sufficient without
knowing what is the specific differences
between an nabi and a rasul. But what is
clear though is that there clearly are
differences between a nabi and a rasul.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala makes it very,
very explicit as does the messenger of
Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam. When
he mentions that Adam alayhi salaam was
the first prophet and Nuh alayhi salaam
was the first rasul, right? So, the
messenger of Allah sallallahu alayhi wa
sallam made it very explicit. So, there
are differences. What are those
differences? When you study aqeedah more
in depth, then you can define a position
at that time. When it comes to the
messengers as well, Shaykh Muhammad ibn
Uthaymeen rahimahullah
he mentions four points of belief that
are compulsory for all the Muslims to
have when it comes to the prophets and
messengers.
Number one is that one must believe that
the message of all of the prophets was
the same. That they all called to
obedience to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and to worship him alone. So, one must
believe that all that the message of all
of the prophets was exactly the same in
terms of calling to obedience to Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala and calling to the
oneness of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Number two, one must believe
specifically in all of the prophets and
messengers that are mentioned in the
Quran and Sunnah and generally believe
in those prophets and messengers that
are not mentioned by name. So, but
specifically the ones that are mentioned
in the Quran, we have 25 of them that
are mentioned in the Quran and in the
Sunnah mentions a few of them as well.
So, we're specifically required to
believe in them by name. But, there are
prophets that Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
did not tell us about. We're generally
required to believe in them as well.
Number three is that one is required to
believe everything that is authentically
attributed to those prophets. One is
required to believe everything that is
authentically attributed to those
prophets. So, anything that is
attributed to the Prophet
anything that is authentically
attributed to the previous prophets, we
are required to believe in as well. And
then the fourth and last point he
mentions is that we are required to
submit, accept, and act accordingly to
those teachings. We are required to
the teachings that the prophets came
with. So, submit, accept, and act
accordingly to the teachings that the
prophet came with. And you'll notice
that this is one of the unique things
about Islam that Islam is a religion
that came to accept all the prophets of
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala. Where you'll
notice as the previous nations, some of
them denied Isa, some of them denied
Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
Whereas Islam is the only religion that
accepts all of the prophets. And you'll
notice that this belief in Islam of
belief in the prophets is a very
integral belief. Cuz if you look at Nuh
Alaihi Wasallam,
during the time of Nuh Alaihi Wasallam,
Nuh Alaihi Wasallam was the first Rasul
sent to them, right? But, when you look
at how Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala addresses
the people of Nuh when they rejected Nuh
Alaihi Wasallam as a prophet, what does
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala mention about
the people of Nuh? That the people of
Nuh
rejected Al Mursalin. That he rejected
all of the prophets. So, the the point
that we get from this from Surah
Ash-Shu'ara is that denying one of the
prophets, rejecting one of the prophets,
is it is as if you deny all of the
prophets and reject all of the prophets.
So, believing in prophets is an integral
part of our faith. Is
of our faith.
Then the messenger of Allah
goes on to belief in the last day.
Actually, sorry. Now we get into what
are some of the benefits that you get in
terms of believing in the prophets and
messengers.
So, number one, we get that Allah
he knows us best and thus he gave us
physical examples of what to live up to.
So, human beings are very visual. An
individual can hear something, but it
will not have the same effect as him
seeing it. So, Allah
he sent physical examples in terms of
how human beings should conduct
themselves. Number two is that Allah
chose to send human beings as messengers
so that the people can relate to them.
Had Allah
sent angels, the angels would not have
the problems that human beings have. So,
the fact that the prophets and
messengers went through their trials and
went through their tribulations, Allah
chose them intentionally so that the
human beings can relate to their
experience, relate to their human
experience.
Number three, that it gives human beings
an ideal example to strive for, right?
So, you have emulating them as point
number one and then point number three
is that you have something to strive
for. That now that you know that you can
relate to this creation of Allah,
you have something to strive for in
terms of what you can be like. So, in
terms of each noble attribute, you'll
notice that each prophet and messenger
was known for their traits and
attributes. So, when you think about,
you know,
uh courage, you think about Musa.
When you think about patience, you think
about Ayyub. When you think about Yusuf,
you think about a person restraining
themself, you think about Yusuf. You
think about, um you know, a person being
uh you know, having the ability to I
guess just be patient with his people.
You think about the Prophet Muhammad
you think about eloquence, you think
about the Prophet Muhammad.
So these are all things that Allah
showed us in these prophets and
messengers so that we can aspire to be
like them so that we can aspire to be
like them.
Now we move on to belief in the last
day. Belief in the last day.
Now in terms of belief in the last day
he mentions three things that we are
required to believe in. Three things
that we are required to believe in. When
we talk about belief in the last day, he
says we are required to believe in
resurrection after the blowing of the
second horn. So as we know that from the
events that will take place on in the
here after the beginning of the here
after is that it will be the trumpet
that will be blown. And then after the
trumpet is blown for the second time,
mankind will be resurrected and they
will be judged by Allah.
So we are required to believe in that.
Number two, you are required to believe
in the actual reckoning and accounting
of deeds. So you'll notice that the
philosophers of the past, they believed
that the deeds that we do can never be
judged. They can never be judged. They
said according to them these deeds that
we perform if I speak a truthful word,
what weight will this have on the scale?
Because words have no weight themselves.
But as a Muslim we believe that our
deeds actually will be judged and they
will be placed on scales and they will
have weight to them and they will have
weight to them. And then number three,
the third important part is belief in
Jannah and a nar. Belief in paradise and
belief in the hellfire and belief in the
hellfire. And according to
these are the three pillars that are
required for a Muslim to believe in in
the here after. Number one, the
resurrection. Number two, the judgment
of deeds. And number three, belief in
the heaven and the hell.
Now, certain contentions have been
raised here as well that as a Muslim,
what happens if you deny, you know,
belief of the punishment of the grave?
As is rampant in some of the groups of
Islam that they denied the
the punishment of the grave. They said
that the punishment of the grave is
something that will not actually happen.
And it is something that is completely
metaphorical. What happens in that
situation? Now, what has happened
throughout the history of Islam that
those groups that did deny the
punishment of the grave or, you know,
the accountability in the grave, the
scholars of Islam still treated them as
Muslims. Still treated them as Muslims.
And this goes into a concept of fiqh
that one is a
qat'i and one is a
dhanni. That the proof that we have, one
is it certain beyond a shadow of a
doubt, and one is it something that is
not absolutely certain, but we still act
upon it. And they consider some of the
scholars considered the the
accountability of the grave as a matter
which is dhanni. And based upon
something which is dhanni, if you were
to deny it, you are sinful and it does
not take you outside the fold of Islam.
However, it is only something that is
certain without a shadow of a doubt that
if you were to deny it, then this would
take you outside the fold of Islam. And
this is one of the reasons that Sheikh
Uthaymeen rahimahullah didn't mention it
is that the dalil that is used for the
grave is something which is dhanni. But
from our perspectives as Sunnah wal
Jama'ah, even if something is dhanni, we
believe in it and our actions have to
show in accordance to it. Our actions
have to show in accordance to it. So
now, what are some of the benefits that
we get of belief in the Day of Judgment?
What are some of the benefits that we
get to get from belief in the Day of
Judgment? Number one is that it prevents
the slave of Allah from oppressing
others. It prevents the slave from
oppressing others because he realizes
that even though he may get away from
oppression in this life from being of
you know being oppressive in this life,
on the day of judgement, there's no way
he can escape it. That on that day, he
will have nowhere to flee to. So any
form of oppression that you perform in
this dunya, you will be held accountable
for it in the hereafter. You will be
held accountable for it in the
hereafter.
Number two,
the second benefit of belief in the day
of judgement is that at times as human
beings, we will go through trials that
no one recognizes and understands the
pain of except us ourselves. That no
matter how much you may try to explain
it to someone, that feeling that you
have inside yourself cannot be explained
by words. Cannot be understood by anyone
else. And that is why the reward of such
events in your life is with Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala alone. Because Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala is the only one that
understands what you go through as an
individual. And likewise, you will be
compensated based upon that. That Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala knows and it was the
human beings that did not know.
Number three is that Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala compensates on the day of
judgement with ultimate mercy. So that
the messenger of Allah salallahu alayhi
wasallam, he tells us that Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala has 100 mercies, of
which he only sent down one of them to
this earth through which a mother will
show mercy towards her child. And he has
saved 99 mercies for the day of
judgement for when he judges us and when
our reckoning takes place. And that the
messenger of Allah salallahu alayhi us
that on that day, he has forewritten for
himself that my mercy will overcome my
wrath. So, belief in the Day of Judgment
necessitates that a person believe and
have high hopes in the mercy of Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala, that no matter how
much he may have sinned, Allah Subhana
Wa Ta'ala has dictated for himself for
that day that his mercy will overcome
his wrath, that his mercy will overcome
his wrath.
Now, we get to the last portion of the
articles of faith, and it is the last
portion we will be discussing for
tonight. And that is belief in divine
decree. The Messenger of Allah
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam, he goes on
to say, "Wa an tu'minu bil qadarihi wa
sharrihi." That you believe in qadar,
the good of it and the bad of it. So,
now the first question arises, why did
the Messenger of Allah Sallallahu Alaihi
Wasallam repeat the the verb an tu'minu,
that it is for you to believe? Why did
the Messenger of Allah Sallallahu Alaihi
Wasallam repeat this? And the scholars
mentioned three reasons as to why the
Messenger of Allah Sallallahu Alaihi
Wasallam repeated it. Number one is that
after a long sentence structure, you
re-emphasize the verb, or so you
re-represent the verb that you're using.
So, after mentioning five articles of
faith, and he doesn't mention tu'minu in
the beginning of them, he mentions it
over here in front of the sixth one, so
that an individual may understand that
the Messenger of Allah Sallallahu Alaihi
Wasallam is mentioning that you need to
have iman in qadar, the good of it and
the bad of it. Allah knows best, but
this is the weakest opinion out of the
three.
Number two is that the Messenger of
Allah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam is
mentioning the verb an tu'minu, the to
have iman again as a form of emphasis,
that out of all of these things, you
know, you have to have belief in that
and as well as this. So, it is a form of
emphasis that the Messenger of Allah
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam is repeating
it again. And then the third reason why
the scholars mention
that the messenger of Allah mentions and
it is to believe is to show the
importance of Qadar. That Qadar is
something very very
specific to the religion of Muhammad
in the sense that it is one of those
things that will be a cause of people
going astray and that is why it is very
important to believe in it properly. And
this is what you actually see that after
the deviation of the Khawarij in terms
of Iman, the first deviation you see
after that is that of Qadar. That during
the time of the Sahaba during the ending
of the time of the Sahaba, you see this.
And this is why if you actually look in
the beginning of Sahih Muslim when the
Hadith of Jibreel is actually mentioned,
it starts off with people coming to
Abdullah ibn Umar talking about people
who no longer believe in Qadar properly.
And this is when Abdullah ibn Umar
actually mentions the Hadith of Jibreel.
This is when Abdullah ibn Umar actually
mentions the Hadith of Jibreel. So one
of the main reasons why people will go
astray
is because of their lack of
understanding of Qadar. And you know how
many times do we see this in in our day
and age when people say, you know, how
can you believe in a God that is meant
to be merciful but there's so much
chaos? Or if God wanted me to be
righteous, he would have made me
righteous. You see these forms of
arguments presented all the time and
these arguments directly deal with Qadar
in understanding the decree that Allah
has sent.
So what are the required belief in
Qadar? What is the required belief in
Qadar? The required belief in Qadar is
also of four parts. It is also of four
parts. Number one, it is to believe that
Allah
knows everything. So everything that
existed, everything that will exist,
everything that currently does exist,
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala knows it all.
Some of the scholars added to this that
if there was a different way of a
timeline proceeding, the Allah Subhana
Wa Ta'ala would have even known that.
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala would have even
known that. So, Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
knows the present, the past, and the
future, that which is seen, and that
which is unseen as well. So, Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala's knowledge is
encompassed by all things.
Number two, is that Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala had Qadar documented 50,000 years
before the creation of the heavens and
the earth. So, the messenger of Allah
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam, as is
reported in Sahih Muslim, he said that
the first thing Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
created was the pen, and he told the pen
to write everything that will exist from
now until the end of time, and this was
50,000 years before the creation of the
heavens and the earth. Now, this Qadar
is known as the Qadar that is preserved
in the Lawh al-Mahfuz.
And the Qadar that is mentioned in the
Lawh al-Mahfuz is the Qadar that is not
changed at all. So, the Qadar that has
been written in the Lawh al-Mahfuz will
never change whatsoever. And that is why
when you look at narrations such as
nothing increases one's lifespan like
keeping Silat al-Rahim, like keeping
good ties with your family, or nothing
changes one one's Qadar like Dua, this
is not the Qadar that it is referring
to. The Qadar that is written in the
Lawh al-Mahfuz, that is a Qadar that
never changes. So, what is the Qadar
that it is referring to? There are three
other types of Qadar that are mentioned.
There are three other types of Qadar
that are mentioned. Number one, the
Qadar that is written when a child is
born. So, when a child is born, the
Qadar that is written are his actions,
his lifespan, his Rizq, will he be happy
or will he be, you know, someone who is
shaqi? Shaqi is not only upset, but
someone who is unfortunate as well.
Someone who's unfortunate as well. So,
this is one type of qadar that can
change through dua and can change
through righteous deeds and sin. The
second type of qadar, the qadar that is
written in Ramadan. So, we have in in
Ramadan a night known as Laylat al-Qadr
in which the qadar of the pre of the
following year is documented. It is
written down during that time. That is
something that can be changed through
dua and can be changed through righteous
deeds and the sins that we commit. Then
there's a third type of qadar which is
reported and attributed to some of the
predecessors where Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala he says in Surat al-Rahman,
"Kullu yawmin huwa fi sha'n." That every
day he's busy with an affair. They said
this is the daily qadar that is written
down. And there are reports in
al-Tabarani that authenticate this.
There are reports in al-Tabarani that
authenticate this. And this is the third
type of qadar that actually can be
changed through dua and through
righteous deeds and even the the sins
that we commit. So, the qadar that is
written in Lawh al-Mahfuz, that can
never change.
The third principle or the third pillar
of belief in qadar is that nothing
happens except by the will of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala. Nothing happens
except by the will and permission of
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala. And if Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala has not willed
something or has not given permission
for something to happen, it will not
happen. And only when Allah has willed
it and has given permission for it to
happen, that is when it will happen. And
then the fourth and last thing that is
mentioned in terms of
uh our belief in qadar is that
everything besides Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala is something which is created.
Everything besides Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala is something which is created. So
even our the actions that we do are a
creation from Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala.
Even the actions that we do are a
So let us repeat those four again.
Bismillah Ta'ala. Number one Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala knows everything.
Anything that you can possibly imagine
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala knows his past,
present, future and if there was a
different reality to it, Allah would
have known that as well. Number two is
that Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala documented
all of Qadar in the Lawh al-Mahfuz
50,000 years before the creation of the
heavens and the earth. And this is the
type of Qadar that can never change.
Number three
is that
the nothing will happen except by the
permission and will of Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala. Nothing can happen except by the
Ta'ala. And then number four is that
even our actions as human beings are a
creation of Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala.
Even our actions as human beings are a
creation of Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala. So
now what are some of the benefits of
belief in Qadar? What are some of the
benefits of belief in Qadar?
Number one is that it
person the importance of taking action
because the messenger of Allah Subhana
Wa Ta'ala he clearly tells us that if
you were to have tawakkul in Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala a tawakkul that he is
truly deserving of then he would provide
for you just like he provides for the
bird. Now how does he describe this
bird? He describes the bird as it leaves
its house early in the morning and comes
out with its stomach full. Meaning that
the bird did not just sit in its nest
waiting for Allah to send down some
worms into into its mouth but rather
this bird flew out, sought the worms and
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala provided for it.
So part of your belief in Qadar is
taking action in your life. And if
you're not taking action, then you have
no reason to blame Qadar for the
shortcomings in your life.
Number two is that part of belief in
Qadar is realizing that you are only a
small small creation in Allah's vast
creation. That when you think about how
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala has created all
of our lives in its distinct and unique
manner. Are you where are you from
originally? Where's your family
originally from? Ethiopia. Ethiopia. And
Adam, you're originally from Yemen,
correct? Hisham, you're originally from
Algeria, correct? And you are Ahmed,
you're originally from Egypt, correct?
And you are originally from? Somalia.
From Somalia. Myself, half Indian, half
Pakistani.
It was the Qadar of Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala before the creation of the
heavens and the earth that he wrote that
our ancestors would accept Islam and
that we would continue one generation to
the next. Finally, our families would
move to Canada. Mine moved to Montreal.
Your families moved somewhere else. And
somehow, some way or another, on May
24th, 2013, we would be sitting here.
This is, you know, when you understand
the beauty of Qadar, you truly
understand how Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
is in control of everything. And that if
if a human being wanted to take control
of these things, he wouldn't be able to
because it's too much that is beyond his
capability. So, it really teaches you
just to be patient that whatever
happens, just be patient with it because
it is part of a greater plan that is
unfolding.
Number three is that Qadar teaches us to
have faith in Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala.
That part of our faith in Allah Subhana
Wa Ta'ala is that he is the most just,
that he is the most wise, and he is the
most merciful, and he is the most
loving. Therefore, every single thing
that happens in our lives is a
manifestation of that ultimate justice,
that ultimate love and compassion, that
ultimate mercy, and that ultimate
wisdom. Whether we recognize it or not,
we still need to believe in it because
this is from Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
himself.
The fourth and last thing from the
benefits of belief in Qadar is that an
individual can console himself. That in
life, sometimes you will strive your
utmost hardest and it just isn't meant
for you. And when you strive your utmost
hardest and it isn't meant for you,
rather than blaming yourself, you
console yourself with the fact that
look, I tried my best, I put my trust in
Allah. Perhaps this was not written for
me, and Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala has
placed something better for me. So,
these are some of the benefits that are
mentioned in Qadar. And in next week,
we will be talking about the concept of
Ihsan, and we'll be talking about the
signs of the Day of Judgment, and then
we'll conclude with the Hadith of
Jibreel in
that Halaka. Wa Sallallahu Alaihi
Wasallam Wa Barik Ala Nabiyina Muhammad
Wa Ala Alihi Wa Sahbihi Wasallam. I will
take three questions
in Ta'ala.
Go ahead.
I have a question about
Dada.
How are we able to
Right. So, how do you
reconcile between
we look at the scripture then
believe in what's
true and what's not.
Fantastic. So, when the Prophet
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam reprimanded
Umar ibn Khattab
for this, he reprimanded Umar ibn
Khattab for the fact that he was looking
to the Torah for guidance. He was
looking to the Torah for guidance. You
can read the Torah to see what is inside
the Torah from the stories, from the
lessons, and all of that stuff. But in
terms of developing new guidance from
it, then the Quran is the ultimate
source of guidance, and it either
affirms or further emphasizes the same
concepts as the Torah and the Injil did.
And that is what Omar ibn Khattab
was reprimanded for. And Allah knows
best. Number two.
Uh I have a question like you presented.
Yes. Like one of the persons asked
earlier
that what is the other
Sorry, he asked who? Uh the prophet.
Okay. And he replied that it's like
standing on one leg.
What does that mean? So that's why
I have no idea what that means. Do you
have a comment on that?
Oh, it's a question. Okay.
In terms of, you know, the our
predecessors when it came to Qadar, they
referred to Qadar as the secret of Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala. So while we are
required to believe in the Qadar that
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala has for us,
at the same time we're not meant to
dwell too much into it, right? Cuz when
you dwell too much into Qadar, since it
deals with the ultimate knowledge of
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala,
there are clearly some elements of Qadar
that we will never be able to
understand. Now in terms of Qadar is
like standing on one leg,
I I wouldn't even know where to begin to
explain something like that. Do you want
to comment on that? I think that means
like we have control over certain
things, but
But why isn't the same that the same
thing as standing on two legs?
Cuz you can still stand on two legs and
still not have control of everything.
Not without legs. Okay, I'll have
Khair, Allah knows best. Now we have a
lot of questions. General rule is three,
but who has questions? Let's see who has
questions. So we have one, two,
three, four, five. Call on these five
questions and that's it.
Actually, six. You have a hand up. I'll
give you a go. Go ahead. One question is
about the topic about believing in
abrogated verses.
Yes. So
what does that mean because only
rulings are abrogated and you don't
believe in abrogated and act upon it.
Or what?
So, this is an example of, you know,
Sheikh Uthaymeen, may Allah have mercy
on him,
in his explanation, he used the example
of someone who believes in smoking. So,
as And I'll give you the example. So,
that he sees all these signs that
smoking is bad, right? And he knows he
sees the physical effects of how bad
smoking is on himself, yet he doesn't
develop the habit of giving up smoking.
So, does this person truly have iman or
not? And this goes back into the whole
linguistic definition of it, but part of
having iman in the abrogated verses is
that they existed, that they were part
of the revelation. But, in terms of
amal, this is not a part of it. So, this
is a similar example that Sheikh
Uthaymeen gave. In terms of the details,
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala knows best. Go
ahead. Uh you said Allah would have 99
mercies on the Day of Judgment.
Yes. Is it Is it when Prophet Muhammad,
peace be upon him, would intercede for
us, or would it be also include other
occasions? No, it will include other
occasions as well. It will include other
occasions as well. The intercession of
the Messenger of Allah, peace be upon
him, is known as shafa'atul kubra, and
that is what will cause the intercession
that will Through his intercession, the
Day of Judgment or the Day of Reckoning
will actually begin on that day. And
that is a big blessing within of itself,
but that is not that will not encompass
all 99 of Allah's mercies, but rather
there's much much more to it. Excellent.
Our young brother in the back that was
sitting behind you seems to have be
gone. Actually, you moved over here.
Masha Allah. Go ahead.
How do you know if you're a prophet of
Allah? In this day and age, there are no
prophets from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala he tells us in
the 40th verse of Surat al-Ahzab
that the Messenger of Allah, peace be
upon him, is the seal of all prophets.
He is the seal of all prophets. So, in
this day and age, there are no prophets.
But, the way they knew about it in the
past is that an angel would come and
would give them revelation, and through
this revelation, they would know that
they are a prophet of Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala. That is one of the ways. Another
thing is that the Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala would give them miracles. So, if
they were able to perform miracles, this
is another way that they would know that
they were prophet from Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala. Number three is that Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala would give them
special and preferential treatment over
the rest of the creation. So, that is
someone that is a way that they would
know that they are prophets. Does that
make sense? Good job. Who is next? Go
ahead.
Um regarding the
Hadith you said is that everything is
happened
with
everything is not happened without
Allah's permission and
Yes. knowledge. Yes. So, the people are
like uh want to ask these things. They
are like
when the bad things happen, they uh
say how can Allah
uh ask for give the permission to do
these things? Right. So, this area a
little bit, you know, confusion arise.
Right.
it is can explain by example? Excellent
question. So, now part of our belief in
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala consists that
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala is the most
knowing, the most loving, the most
merciful, and the most just. And why
That is when when you discuss, you know,
giving da'wah to people, the first thing
you want to discuss with them is the
existence of Allah. After they accept
existence of Allah, you discuss the role
of Allah. After they they accept the
role of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala, you
talk about the authenticity of the Quran
as a divine book. And then the last
point is how that the Prophet was salaam
was a truthful messenger of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala. Those are like the
four stages of da'wah. Now, the reason
why they mentioned these four stages of
da'wah is that once you understand and
believe that Allah is the most just and
the most loving and the most merciful,
you will come to accept that you are not
meant to understand everything, right?
That you as a creation, your our
understanding is very limited. And that
is why certain events will happen in the
world that when you witness them and you
see them, you may think, "Where is the
mercy in this act? Where is, you know,
the wisdom in this act?" But then a
hundred years down the line, you see the
significance of that act that it played
in history that Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
brings about the wisdom from it. So, in
these evil atrocities, even in those
evil atrocities, Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
has created much wisdom. That it is a
means of people starting to show
generosity. That without those evil
atrocities happening in the world,
people would not donate to their money.
Number two, it is a reason why people
turn back to Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala.
That during times of hardship, when the
creation cannot help them, the human
being realizes that I need to depend on
my creator himself. Number three, it
brings about a sense of humility in the
rest of creation. That one day these
people were perfectly fine, now they're
in a state of tribulation, the next day
I could be in that state of tribulation
as well. Number four, it creates a
source of empathy between the human
beings. That if you create if I care for
someone else, then Bithnillah Ta'ala in
the future someone will care for me as
well. So, these are all some of the
reasons why these quote unquote evil
things happen. But from a Muslim
perspective, we believe there's no such
thing as pure evil. That even in what
the human beings may consider evil,
there's always hidden elements of good.
That even in the creation of Shaitan,
Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala brought about
some goodness from it. That when we
fight off the desires that Shaitan
instills inside of us, we get rewarded.
Every time we say "A'udhu billahi min
ash-shaytan ar-rajeem", we get rewarded.
Every time we say "Bismillah" before we
eat or enter our house to ward off the
Shaitan, we get rewarded. So, from a
Muslim's perspective, there is no such
thing as evil. But we submit to the fact
that everything that Allah Subhana Wa
Ta'ala created is filled with love,
wisdom, and mercy. Whether we realize it
now or not, eventually we will come to
see it. And Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
knows best.
There was a last question, or was that
number five? I was just curious that you
didn't touch on like you mentioned that
you have a different prophet, but during
the time that the prophet was speaking
is the last prophet of Allah Subhana
That I didn't touch upon the messenger
of Islam being the last prophet. I would
generally assume that's common
knowledge. I would generally assume
that's common knowledge amongst the
Muslims at least. Yes, but if you think
about that
I think if that was common knowledge
No, fantastic. That's a good question.
We'll conclude with that.
As-salamu alaykum wa rahmatullahi wa
barakatuh.